Rada Mihalcea (UNT)
Graph-based Ranking Algorithms for Language Processing
10:30 am - 12:00 pm
11 Large

Although we live in a predominantly statistical world, there are still
many language processing applications that long for accurate
representations of text meaning. Even applications that found partial
solutions in statistical modeling, including information retrieval,
machine translation, or automatic summarization, are likely to get a
significant boost from deeper text understanding.

In this talk, I will present an innovative method for automatic extraction
of conceptual graphs as a means to represent text meaning.Â  The method
relies on a novel adaptation of graph-based ranking algorithms -
traditionally (and successfully) used in citation analysis, Web page
ranking, and social networks. I will show how such algorithms can be
adapted to semantic networks, resulting in an efficient unsupervised
method for resolving the semantic ambiguity of all words in open text, and
identifying relations between entities in the text. I will also outline a
number of applications that are enabled by this representation, including
keyphrase extraction, domain classification, and extractive summarization.

BIO: Rada Mihalcea is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at
University of North Texas. Her research interests are in lexical
semantics, minimally supervised natural language learning, and
multilingual natural language processing. She is currently involved in a
number of research projects, including word sense disambiguation, shallow
semantic parsing, (non-traditional) methods for building annotated corpora
with volunteer contributions over the Web, word alignment for language
pairs with scarce resources, and graph-based ranking algorithms for
language processing. Her research is supported by NSF and the state of
Texas.
