Stephan Vogel
The CMU Statistical Machine Translation System
3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
11 Large

The presentation will give an overview of the SMT activities at the
Language Technologies Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, in large
vocabulary text translation tasks, esp. the Chinese-English and
Arabic-English, as well as in limited domain speech-to-speech translation
tasks.  The CMU SMT system is, like most modern statistical MT systems,
based on phrase translation.  Several approaches have been developed to
extract the phrase pairs from parallel corpora and current research
investigates different scoring approaches for these translation pairs.
Details of the decoder, esp. on hypothesis recombination, pruning, and
efficient n-best list generation will be given.  Recently, the SMT system
has been extended to use partial translations generated from example based
and grammar based translation system, thereby performing multi-engine
machine translation.

Bio:

Stephan Vogel is a researcher at the Language Technologies Institute,
Carnegie Mellon University, where he heads the statistical machine
translation team.  He received a Diploma in Physics from Philips
University Marburg, Germany, and a Masters of Philosophy from the
University of Cambridge, England.  After working for a number of years on
the history of science, he turned to computer science, especially natural
language processing.  Before coming to CMU, he worked for several years at
the Technical Univerity of Aachen on statistical machine translation, and
also in the Interactive Systems Lab at the University of Karlsruhe.

