Nick Mote
Developing a Language Model for Second Language Learner Speech
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

ISI's Tactical Language Project is a system designed to teach Americans
how to speak Arabic through a video game environment. We've taken a FPS
engine (Unreal 2003) and re-did the graphics so it looks like you're in a
typical Lebanese village. We took away the guns, added speech recognition,
and set the player in the middle of it all. The theory is that if you
learn well in a classroom, you'll perform well in a classroom, but if you
learn well in a pseudo-naturalistic environment, you'll perform better in
real life.

In a pedagogical context, speech recognition is a hard thing we're trying
to recover signal from noisy language-learner speech--with all of its
mispronunciations, disfluencies, and grammatical errors . Language
understanding is hopeless unless you have a good approximation of what
kinds of mistakes learners make, and you can build a system to anticipate
them.

Suppose an English language learner says "Water". Is he asking you for
water? Is he telling you there's a puddle in front of you? Is he saying
his name is "Walter", but with horrible pronunciation? There's a lot of
ambiguity involved. In order to disambiguate, we need to look at the
speech signal itself, the utterance's context, the learner's past language
performance, and details about the learner's mother language as it relates
to English, etc., etc... Only then can we hope to guess what the learner
is actually trying to say.

And then, of course, once we've made a good guess at the learner's speech
intentions, what do we do about it? How do we correct him? How do we
balance the consideration of inherent qualities of learner motivation,
language errors, learning objectives, and possibly low-confidence speech
recognition, as we generate good pedagogical feedback?

This is NLP (primarily statistical) with a bit of pedagogy theory and
linguistic (SLA and phonology) theory sprinkled in.

