John Prager (IBM)
Using Constraints to Improve Question-Answering Accuracy
2:00 pm - 3:00 pm
11 Large

Leading Question-Answering systems employ a variety of means to boost the
accuracy of their answers.  Such methods include redundancy (getting the
same answer from multiple documents/sources), deeper parsing of questions
and texts (hence improving the accuracy of confidence measures),
inferencing (proving the answer from information in texts plus background
knowledge) and sanity-checking (verifying that answers are consistent with
known facts).  To our knowledge, however, no QA system deliberately asks
additional questions in order to derive constraints on the answers to the
original questions.

We present in this talk the method of QA-by-Dossier-with-Constraints (QDC).
This is an extension of the simpler method of QA-by-Dossier, in which
definitional questions ("Who/what is X") are addressed by asking a set of
questions about anticipated properties of X.  In QDC, the collection of
Dossier candidate answers, along with possibly other answers to questions
asked expressly for this purpose, are subjected to satisfying a set of
naturally-arising constraints.  For example, for a "Who is X" question, the
system will ask about birth, accomplishment and death dates, which, if they
exist, must occur in that order, and also obey other constraints such as
lifespan.  Temporal, spatial and kinship relationships seem to be
particularly amenable to this treatment, but it would seem that almost any
"factoid" question can benefit from QDC.  We will discuss the setting-up
and application of constraint networks, and talk about how (and whether) to
develop the constraint sets automatically.  We will demonstrate several
applications of QDC, and present one evaluation in which the F-measure for
a set of questions improved with QDC from .39 to .69.
