Doug Oard (Maryland)
The CLEF Cross-Language Speech Retrieval Test Collection
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

Test collections for information retrieval tasks have traditionally
assumed that what we are searching for are documents (e.g., Web pages,
news stories, or academic documents).  Most information that is generated
is, however, not in originally generated as part of a document, but rather
as what we might refer to as "conversational media" (e.g., email, speech,
or instant messaging).  In this talk, I'll describe the creation of two
test collections for conversational media, an email collection being
created in the TREC Enterprise Search track and a spoken word test
collection for the the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum (CLEF).  I'll spend
most of the talk describing the details of the CLEF test collection,
illustrating the issues with some of the results that we have obtained
from our experiments with that collection.  I'll conclude with a few
remarks about the implications of what we are learning for DARPA's new
GALE program.  This is joint work with Charles University, the IBM TJ
Watson Research Center, the Johns Hopkins University, the Survivors of the
Shoah Visual History Foundation, and the University of West Bohemia.


About the speaker:

Douglas Oard is an Associate Professor at the University of Maryland,
College Park, with a joint appointment in the College of Information
Studies and the Institute for Advanced Computer Studies.  He holds a Ph.D.
in Electrical Engineering from the University of Maryland, and his
research interests center around the use of emerging technologies to
support information seeking by end users.  In 2002 and 2003, Doug spent a
year in paradise here at USC-ISI.  His recent work has focused on
interactive techniques for cross-language information retrieval and on
searching conversational text and speech.  Additional information is
available at http://www.glue.umd.edu/~oard/.
