Yutaka Sasaki (ATR)
Research Activities in Speech Translation at ATR/QA as Question-Biased Term Extraction
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

This talk has two parts. In the first part, I will introduce research
activities in Speech-to-Speech Translation at ATR, including on-going
research on statistical machine translation. In the second part, I will
present a new approach to QA named Question-Biased Term Extraction (QBTE).
The QBTE directly extracts answers as terms biased by the question. To
confirm the feasibility of our QBTE approach, we conducted experiments on
the CRL QA Data based on 10-fold cross validation, using Maximum Entropy
Models as an ML technique. Experimental results showed that the trained
system achieved approximately 0.35 in MRR and 50% in TOP5 accuracy. This
part is an English version of my presentation given in IPSJ SIGNL-163 in
2004 in Japanese. If time allows, I would like to introduce the NTCIR-5
(2004/2005) Cross-Lingual QA task (CLQA) that I am going to organize.

About the speaker:

Yutaka Sasaki received his Ph.D. in Engineering from the University of
Tsukuba, Japan in 2000 for his work on generating Information Extraction
rules with hierarchically sored Inductive Logic Programming. He joined NTT
Laboratories in 1988. Since then, he was involved in research in
rule-based CAI, inductive logic programming, Information Extraction, and
Question Answering. From 1995 to 1996, he spent one year at Simon Fraser
University, Canada as a visiting researcher. From 1999, he led a subgroup
to develop the first practical Japanese Question Answering System SAIQA.
Then, he applied SVMs to automatically construct the QA system SAIQA-II
from QA and NE data. In June 2004, he moved to ATR Spoken Language
Translation Research Laboratories. Currently, he is the head of Department
of Natural Language Processing. He is also an organizer of the NTCIR 5
Cross-Lingual Question Answering Task.

