Gully Burns
The neuroscience laboratory as a knowledge factory: challenges, approaches and tools
10:30 am - 12:00 pm
11 Large

As a discipline of biology, the field of neuroscience suffers greatly from
information overload, non-standardization and complexity. In the absence
of a mathematical theoretical structure for the subject, scientists use
their own ad-hoc methods of collating and synthesizing information from
both the primary literature and their own data. In order to eventually
formalize and accelerate the development of theoretical approaches in the
subject, we are combining an Electronic Laboratory Notebook (ELN) with
asset management of the primary research literature to construct a
knowledge engineering framework based around the organizational unit of a
neuroscience laboratory. This project, called ¡NeuroScholar¢
(http://www.neuroscholar.org/) is open-source, and is being tested and
used in the laboratories of Prof. Larry Swanson and Prof. Alan Watts at
USC. In each laboratory, the system will operate on top of a ¡laboratory
corpus¢ of knowledge resources (data files, full-text pdf files , etc.)
that summarizes the relevant knowledge for that laboratory. Not only will
this collection provide a valuable resource for the members of the
laboratory, it provides a platform for natural language processing and
knowledge engineering to answer formally-defined research questions. The
Society for Neuroscience¢s annual meeting attracts over 30,000 attendees,
who collectively form potential user-base of this software.

I will talk about the ideas underlying the project, the current
implementation of NeuroScholar, developments from collaboration with the
natural language group at ISI and possible collaborations for the future.


