Shou-de Lin
Ph.D. defense practice talk
3:30 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

This is a practice talk for my Ph.D. defense, which  
will be held on Aug 24th 3-5pm, SAL 322.

An important problem in the area of homeland security and fraud  
detection is to identify abnormal entities in large datasets.   
Although there are methods from knowledge discovery and data mining  
focusing on finding anomalies in numerical datasets, there has been  
little work aimed at discovering abnormal or suspicious instances in  
large and complex semantic graphs whose nodes are richly connected  
with many different types of links. In this talk, I will describe a  
novel, domain-independent and unsupervised framework to identify such  
instances.  Besides discovering suspicious instances, we believe that  
to complete the discovery process and to deal with the "curse of  
false positives", a system has to convince the users by providing  
explanations for its findings. Therefore, in the second part of the  
talk I will describe an explanation mechanism to automatically  
generate human-understandable explanations for the discovered  
results. Experimental results show that our discovery system  
outperforms state-of-the-art unsupervised network algorithms used to  
analyze the 9/11 terrorist network by a large margin. Additionally, a  
human study we conducted demonstrates that our explanation system,  
which provides natural language explanations for its findings,  
allowed human subjects to perform complex data analysis in a much  
more efficient and accurate manner


