Tim Chklovski
GrainPile: Deriving Quantitative Overviews of Free Text Assessments on the Web
1:00 pm - 2:00 pm
4th floor

Many research efforts are addressing the problem of enabling automatic
summarization of opinions and assessments stated on the web in product
reviews, discussion forums, and blogs. One key difficulty is that relevant
assessments scattered throughout web pages are obscured by variations in
natural language. In this paper, we focus on a novel aspect of enabling
aggregations of assessments of degree to which a given property holds for
a given entity (for instance, how touristy is Boston). We present
GrainPile, a user interface for extracting from the web, aggregating and
quantifying degree assessments of unconstrained topics. The interface
provides a variety of functions: a) identification of dimensions of
comparison (properties) relevant to a particular entity or set of
entities, b) comparisons of like entities on user-specified properties
(for example, which university is more prestigious, Yale or Cornell), c)
tracing the derived opinions back to their sources (so that the reasons
for the opinions can be found). A central contribution in GrainPile is the
evaluated demonstration of feasibility of mapping the recognized
expressions (such as fairly, very, extremely, and so on) to a common scale
of numerical values and aggregating across all the extracted assessments
to derive an overall assessment of degree. GrainPile&#8217;s novel
assessment and aggregation of degree expressions is shown to strongly
outperform an interpretation-free, co-occurrence based method.

Full paper:

http://www.isi.edu/~timc/papers/IUI06-grainpile-chkl.pdf


