Dragos Munteanu
Automatic creation of parallel corpora
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

Parallel texts -- texts that are translations of each other -- are an
important resource in many cross-lingual NLP applications, such as lexical
acquisition, cross-language IR, and annotation projection. However, their
importance is paramount for Statistical Machine Translation (SMT), as they
provide the training data from which all the translation knowledge is
learned. The state of the art in SMT is advanced enough that, given
sufficient parallel data (i.e. a few million words) for any language pair
in a given domain, a generic SMT system trained on it will achieve a
reasonable translation performance in that domain. The main reason why SMT
systems exist only for a handful of languages is that, for most language
pairs, parallel training data is simply not available.

One way to alleviate this lack of parallel data is to exploit a much
richer and more diverse resource: comparable corpora, texts which are not
strictly parallel but related. The prototypical example of comparable
texts are two news articles in different languages which report on the
same event. I will present methods for automatic extraction of parallel
data from such corpora. I will show how to detect parallel data at various
levels of granularity: parallel documents, parallel sentences, and even
parallel sub-sentence fragments. The parallel corpora obtained using these
methods help improve translation performance for both resource-scarce
language pairs (such as Romanian-English) and resource-rich ones (such as
Arabic-English).

