David DeVault (Rutgers)
Scorekeeping in an Uncertain Language Game
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

Practical dialogue systems must exploit context to interpret user
utterances correctly.  Received views of context and coordination in
pragmatic theory equate utterance context with the occurrent
subjective states of interlocutors using notions like common knowledge
or mutual belief.  We argue that these views are not well suited for
practical modeling due to the uncertainty and robustness of context
dependence in human-human dialogue.  We present an alternative
characterization of utterance context as objective and normative.  On
this view, an interlocutor's representation of context reflects
private uncertainty about the true objective context as determined by
prior speaker meanings.  As conversation moves forward, new utterances
provide interlocutors with retrospective insight about each other's
prior meanings and therefore about what the true context really is.
This view reconciles the need for uncertainty with received intuitions
about coordination, and can directly inform computational approaches
to dialogue.

Joint work with Matthew Stone, Rutgers and Rich Thomason, Michigan

About the Speaker:

David DeVault is a Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Computer
Science at Rutgers University.  He holds a B.S. in Engineering and
Applied Science from the California Institute of Technology and an
M.A. in Philosophy from Rutgers University.  David's research aims to
develop techniques to allow computational agents to participate in
flexible task-oriented conversations with human beings.  His recent
work has drawn on design challenges encountered in building such an
agent to try to articulate practical, learnable, and theoretically
satisfying representations of context, utterance meaning, and speaker
intention for implemented conversational systems.
