Eduard Hovy
Toward a 'Science' of Annotation: Experiences from OntoNotes 
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

As machine learning algorithms and their application for NLP become
better understood, attention turns toward the production of annotated
corpora to which they can be applied.  Numerous phenomena present
themselves for annotation, including aspects in lexical semantics,
discourse, pragmatics, and dialogue.  But several questions
immediately must be answered:  

1. How does one obtain a balanced corpus to annotate?  What is a
balanced corpus?  

2. How does one decide which aspects to annotate? How does one
adequately express the theory behind the phenomena in simple annotation steps? 

3. Which annotators does one hire?  How does one ensure that they are adequately trained?  

4. How does one establish a simple, fast, and trustworthy annotation
procedure?  What interfaces does one build?  How does one ensure that
the interfaces do not affect the annotation results?  

5. How does evaluate the results? What are the appropriate agreement
measures?  At which cutoff points should one re-do the annotations?
How does one ensure improvement?

6. How should one formulate and store the results?  How does one
ensure compatibility with other existing resources?  How does one make
results available for best impact?  

7. How does one report the annotation effort and results?  How does
one actually get a paper on this work published at an important
conference?  What should the paper contain?   

Despite their being so basic, there is almost no established procedure
or standard set of answers to these questions today.  In this talk I
discuss some of these aspects, pointing to the lessons learned in the
ongoing OntoNotes project (joint with BBN, the University of Colorado
(PropBank), the University of Pennsylvania (Treebank), and ISI).
