Gerald Penn (Toronto)
The Quantitative Study of Writing Systems
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

If you understood all of the world's languages, you would still not be
able to read many of the texts that you find on the world wide web,
because they are written in non-Roman scripts -- often ones that have
been arbitrarily encoded for electronic transmission in the absence of
an accepted standard.  This very modern nuisance reflects a dilemma as
ancient as writing itself: the association between a language as it is
spoken and its written form has a sort of internal logic to it that we
can comprehend, but the conventions are different in every individual
case --- even among languages that use the same script, or between
scripts used by the same language.  This conventional association
between language and script, called a <i>writing system</i>, is indeed
reminiscent of the Saussurean conception of language itself, a
conventional association of meaning and sound, upon which modern
linguistic theory is based.  Despite linguists' reliance upon writing
to present and preserve linguistic data, however, writing systems were
a largely forgotten corner of linguistics until the 1960s, when Gelb
presented their first classification.

This talk will describe recent work that aims to place the study of
writing systems upon a sound computational and statistical foundation.
While archaeological decipherment may eternally remain the holy grail
of this area of research, it also has applications to speech
synthesis, machine translation, and multilingual document retrieval.
