Sheelagh Carpendale (Calgary)
Information Visualization and Collaboration
3:00 pm - 4:30 pm
11 Large

Consider Donald Norman's quote, "The power of the unaided mind is
highly overrated. Without external aids, memory, thought, and
reasoning are all constrained. But human intelligence is highly
flexible and adaptive, superb at inventing procedures and objects that
overcome its own limits. The real powers come from devising external
aids that enhance cognitive abilities." (Norman, 1993) Common methods
for externalization include making sketches on whatever happens to be
handy -- paper napkins, program margins, etc. -- and/or finding a
colleague or two to discuss the problem with. It would seem then, that
visualization and collaboration are natural possibilities for creating
positive cognitive aids. I will discuss our approach to developing
interactive information visualizations both to support individuals and
small groups of collaborators and briefly describe some of our recent
results. 

About the speaker:

Sheelagh Carpendale holds a Canada Research Chair in Information
Visualization at the University of Calgary. Her research focuses on
the visualization, exploration and manipulation of information;
visualizing such topics as ecological dynamics, uncertainty in
information, social and communication information and investigating
the development of information visualization environments that support
collaboration. Dr. Carpendale's research in information visualization
and interaction design draws on her dual background in Computer
Science (BSc. and Ph.D. Simon Fraser University) and Visual Arts
(Sheridan College, School of Design and Emily Carr, College of Art). 
