Andrew Kehler (UCSD)
Coherence and the (Psycho-) Linguistics of Pronoun Interpretation 
3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
11 Large

More than three decades of research has sought to uncover the
principles that determine how hearers interpret pronouns in context.
This work has focused predominantly on identifying so-called
'preferences' or 'heuristics' that hearers utilize based on linguistic
properties of antecedent expressions.  This focus is a departure from
the type of approach outlined in Hobbs (1979), which argues that the
mechanisms that drive pronoun interpretation are driven predominantly
by semantics, world knowledge, and inference, with particular
reference to how these are used to establish the coherence of
discourses.

In this talk, I report on new experimental evidence in support of a
coherence-driven analysis, and describe how the analysis can
accommodate a range of previous findings suggestive of conflicting
preferences and biases.  Case studies of four commonly-cited
preferences are described, specifically (i) the parallel grammatical
role preference (e.g., Smyth 1994), (ii) thematic role preferences
(e.g., Stevenson et al. 1994), (iii) implicit causality biases (e.g.,
Caramazza et al. 1977), and (iv) the subject assignment strategy
(e.g., Crawley et al. 1990).  In each case, the experimental results
offer an explanation of what the underlying source of the bias is, and
predicts in what contexts evidence for it will surface.

These results suggest that pronoun interpretation is incrementally
influenced in part by the probabilistic expectations that hearers have
about how the discourse will be coherently continued.  They are also
argued to leave various myths by the roadside, e.g., that pronoun
interpretation can be profitably thought of as a 'search and match'
procedure, and that coherence relations need not be controlled for in
experimental stimuli.

This talk includes joint work with Laura Kertz, Hannah Rohde, and
Jeffrey Elman.

