Douglas W. Oard (Maryland)
Who 'Dat? Identity resolution in large email collections
3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
11th Floor Large Conference Room [1135]

Automated techniques that can support the human activities of search and
sense-making in large email collections are of increasing importance for a
broad range of uses, including historical scholarship, law enforcement and
intelligence applications, and lawyers involved in "e-discovery" incident
to civil litigation.  In this talk, I'll briefly describe some of the work
to date on searching large email collections, and then for most of the
talk I will focus on the more challenging task of support for
sense-making.  Specifically, I'll describe joint work with Tamer Elsayed
to automatically resolve the identity of people who are mentioned
ambiguously (e.g., just by first name) in a collection of email from a
failed corporation (Enron).  Our results indicate that for people who are
well represented in the collection we can use a generative model to guess
the right identity about 80% of the time, and for others we are right
about half the time.  I'll conclude the talk with a few remarks on our
next directions for techniques, evaluation, and additional types of
collections to which similar ideas might be applied.

About the Speaker:

Douglas Oard is an Associate Professor at the University of Maryland,
College Park, with joint appointments in the College of Information
Studies and the Institute for Advanced Computer Studies; he is on
sabbatical at Berkeley's iSchool for the Fall 2009 semester.  Dr. Oard
earned his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of
Maryland, and his research interests center around the use of emerging
technologies to support information seeking by end users.  His recent work
has focused on interactive techniques for cross-language information
retrieval and techniques for search and sense-making in conversational
media.  Additional information is available at
http://www.glue.umd.edu/~oard/.
