Stephan Gouws (Stellenbosch University)
Measuring Conceptual Similarity by Spreading Activation over Wikipedia's Hyperlink Graph
3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
11th Floor Large Conference Room [1135]

The World Wide Web brought with it an unprecedented level of
information overload. Computers are very effective at processing and
clustering numerical and binary data, however, the automated conceptual
clustering of natural-language data is considerably harder to automate.
Many techniques rely on relatively simple keyword-matching techniques or
probabilistic methods to measure semantic relatedness between words and
documents. However, these approaches do not always accurately capture
conceptual relatedness as measured by humans.

In this talk I'll briefly discuss a novel use of spreading activation
(SA) techniques (primarily from cognitive science) for computing
semantic relatedness between words and/or documents. This is done by
modelling the article hyperlink structure of Wikipedia as an associative
network structure for knowledge representation. The SA technique is
adapted and several problems are addressed for it to function over the
derived Wikipedia hyperlink graph. We evaluate these approaches over
standard document similarity datasets and by user evaluation
experiments, and achieve results which compare favourably with state of
the art methods. 

By making use of the collaboratively-created resource Wikipedia, we
hereby also overcome a significant problem in making use of spreading
activation based techniques for information retrieval up to now, as
noted by Crestani (1997): "The problem of building a network which
effectively represents the useful relations [between concepts] has
always been the critical point of many of the attempts to use SA in IR.
These networks are very difficult to build, to maintain and keep up to
date.
