Deniz Yuret (Koc University)
The Noisy Channel Model for Unsupervised Word Sense Disambiguation
3:00 pm - 4:00 pm
11th Floor Large Conference Room [1135]

We introduce a generative probabilistic model, the noisy
channel model, for unsupervised word sense disambiguation. In our
model, each context C is modeled as a distinct channel through which
the speaker intends to transmit a particular meaning S using a
possibly ambiguous word W. To reconstruct the intended meaning the
hearer uses the distribution of possible meanings in the given context
P(S|C) and possible words that can express each meaning P(W|S). We
assume P(W|S) is independent of the context and estimate it using
WordNet sense frequencies. The main problem of unsupervised WSD is
estimating context dependent P(S|C) without access to any sense tagged
text. We show one way to solve this problem using a statistical
language model based on large amounts of untagged text. Our model uses
coarse-grained semantic classes for S internally and we explore the
effect of using different levels of granularity on WSD performance.
The system outputs fine grained senses for evaluation and its
performance on noun disambiguation is better than most previously
reported unsupervised systems and close to the best supervised
systems.

Short Bio: Deniz Yuret is an assistant professor in Computer Engineering at Koc University in Istanbul. Previously he was at the MIT AI Lab and later
co-founded Inquira, Inc. His research is on lexical semantics and
unsupervised approaches to parsing and disambiguation. Currently he is
one of the organizers of the SemEval3 semantic evaluation exercise,
co-chair for the ACL 2011 semantics area, and an editor for the
Computational Linguistics Journal.

